# 2022.07.20 Community Agenda

- Tammy McClellan – (MSFT)
- Anne Currie - (Container Solutions)
- Sean Mcilroy – (LF)
  
## Roll call

Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFTLF<br>
Asim Hussain - IntelLF<br>
Anita Holczmann - GSFLF<br>
Sarah Hsu - GSLF<br>
Chris Xie - Futurewei <br>
Richard Chavasse<br>
Michala Eva - GS <br>
Jan-Willem Lammers - VMware <br>
Guang Li - Shell <br>
Daniel Vaughan - mastercard <br>
Yuxin Zhai - Shell <br>
Alaxandra Kroll - NTTData <br>

  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

Meeting transcript - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-c0-TqKdZJ73I6RJuN78KW5i-OUxPQkcLRfpQZHtQ7Y/edit?usp=sharing

## Agenda Approval (decision) 
  
2022.07.20 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Asim motions to approve the Agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval previous meeting minutes

N/A

## Community WG meetings recorded

## 1. Principles

Project lead - Sarah Hsu - Goldman Sachs <br>
[Principle repo](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/green-software-principles)

Asim - the patterns project is being developed a lot of the things we're going to cover that as though a lot of those can be worked on asynchronously. It's been developed like working on a workflow, which is pretty much just the pure GitHub workflow.

## 2. Patterns of Green Software Engineering

Chair / Project lead Bill Johnson <br>
[Patterns repo](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/green-software-patterns)

Anita - We now have a new GitHub repo for the for betters as well, and it has just been updated recently. We still got both we're still going to do a couple more updates, but by next week, it should also be ready for people to look at and then hopefully next week, we can announce the call for patterns. We now have the procedure the process. So if you now read the readme file, and I am happy to share the actually a link to the readme file in the chat, if that helps. So then you can see the actual page on GitHub and the readme file as well. The README file explains the whole workflow it's basically about how to submit a draft pattern and then what are the different steps the initial review that we're gonna do with a subject matter expert review and then team consensus and finally, a consistency review? This is these are the different stages stages of the process. We are working on a couple of sample patterns right now. So if you look at the page, you will see a couple of examples. We are taking these to the the entire process. So by the time this is ready to be shared with a wider audience, they will have something to look at and they will hopefully have a better understanding what we are looking for here. And then on the higher level, just considering the milestones. We we want this to be done for COP as well. So early November. We'd like to have the first batch of patterns by November which means that we will likely do the consistency review in October and then until then we've got two months to to work on the patterns, too. So this is we have a couple of months for people to submit those patterns and then we're gonna push them through the review procedure. Let me check if there's anything else I wanted to share. Yeah, so the idea is basically that soon we're going to send out an internal newsletter for everybody to GSF and then that's when we're going to announce the coliform patterns.
 
## 3. Meetups - Community engagement

Anita - the community page or the Network page that we have created on meetup. This was specifically for the summit since we were running all the summit events through meetup and that's where people could sign up. And so as a result, we now have community of 2675 people, members and in various locations across the globe. So now we are working on a PR FAQ for this specific project as well. So we know what we are we want to achieve with this community. We are going to organise further events for them obviously and engage them as much as possible. So right now otherwise working on on both the BR FAQ when a strategy document for this specific project.

## 4. Speakers - presenting the project idea and the PRFAQ Meetups 

Anita - So basically, we've noticed an increasing demand for speakers or speakers who are able to talk about GSF topics, particularly during the summit viously. And so the idea that we now have or the idea that we are now working on is creating a speaker's bureau for the foundation and this would be a place on our website where people could go and look at all the potential speakers who can talk about leaks. There will be options to filter for for location, language topic, all sorts of experience and all sorts of things. And so what we've done so far is we've created APR FAQ. And for those who are not familiar with the term, this is basically a press release. Frequently Asked Questions and this is basically the end in mind. So the goal that we want to achieve once we launch and once we execute this project, so this is where we want to get by the end of this year, and then next year as well. I'm gonna put the link to the chat so this explains what we're gonna do now. Basically, this was the PR FAQ. For comp what we want to have is a website's with potential speakers. And then for the next year, we would like to extend this and add some some resources training options support options for speakers, so something something with more added value, but yeah, in here you can see all the all the details of the project. And then there's one more thing we've been working on and that's assemble bio, a sample profile reviews, a scenes profile and a seamless experience to show you what a profile would look like. We've got another Google Doc for that. Share your goals. So in this document, we've listed all the things that we could, that that speakers could share on our website, not just name, title, company, age group, all sorts of things. How much experience they have, what are the topics that they are able to speak about our areas of interest, all sorts of sorts of things. So these things are all open to you know, we're looking for to review and and just we're looking for comments.
<br>
Asim - One of the questions I get asked a lot is Are you part of an underrepresented community minority or something like that, in a an event, short biography, area of interests, I think I'd be interested to see if there's people in this in this group who are run events. This is what this will be very useful people in this in this community red group with a product GSF if you run a conference, or run events or ever looking for speakers, I think it'd be really interesting to see what what your what your feedback would be on on this because a friend essentially this website will be for you. And if there's information here that you don't need, let people know if there's information that you would need if you're running an event to find out about a speaker and it's not here, you know, let us know I think I'm about

## 5. Theory of Change

Tammy - So we had this amazing theory of change workshop. That happened over six weeks, and the last one was last week, and this is kind of the output of this. And so this was I don't know whoever was interested in participating. I was able to do just that. It was an excellent workshop last led by Sandra I don't recall her last name, who did an amazing job but it what you're looking at here is kind of the the output of the workshop. And in it so it involves our mission, our vision, our mission, who we serve, I'm gonna see if I can drop this in the in the chat. Hopefully, people will be able to bring that up and take a look at it. While I'm also scrolling around here, so essentially what the group identified was we need changes in TECH CULTURE, KNOWLEDGE and tooling, so that the environmental effects from software are made a priority, studied and taught and understood and easy to act upon. Right. So that's really the overall purpose. It's so what we did was we kind of drilled in a little bit into each one of those areas. And we have some sub bullets here. So you guys can we've got a few minutes left. So I you can peruse that at at your own leisure. What I did want to kind of call attention to and this is fig jam, by the way, but if you've used mural it's very much the same. And the concepts are very much the same, but it's pretty quick to pick up. But what happened as a part of this is that we identified a lot of actionable items and and what working group wouldn't be able to do that. So what I'd like to do, maybe as a part of our next meeting is talking about these items that came up, kind of organise those thoughts, put them in our get hub, have discussions around them and start to prioritise some of the things that the community working group can influence and so we'll we'll have a SIM and then Anita and Shawn contribute to the overall strategy and leading with those priorities are and then we you know, talk about them in our community working group meetings, and, you know, create projects as a part of that and have those reviews and in discussions.

## 6. Next Meetings

17th Aug

> Agreed

## 7. AOB

> Nothing added

## 8. Adjournment

> Sarah motions to adjourn - no objections - meeting closed
  
